docs: proctored exam testing instructions (#205)
edx/edx-exams: docs/test_plan/proctored_exam.rst

    #. In that same incognito, still signed in as staff, navigate to the Instructor dashboard
    #. Find or create a test course within Stage with proctoring enabled and an LTI proctoring provider chosen, certificates are enabled, and where the exams IDA waffle flag is enabled
        #. The exams IDA waffle flag can be found/created in the LMS' Django Admin under "Waffle Flag Course Overrides"
        #. If needed, you can make a new entry using "course_apps.exams_ida" as the waffle flag, the course ID, and by setting it to "Enabled"
    #. Find or create two exam subsections with a type of 'Proctored exam' in your test course
        #. This can be done by creating a subsection and clicking the 'Configure' button (should look like a gear), going to the "Advanced Tab", and selecting "Proctored"
        #. You MUST also set this subsection to be Graded as a Midterm or Final exam
        #. This subsection should contain at least one unit with one gradeable block, e.g. a generic multiple choice question in order to test downstream effects to the gradebook
    #. You should also have a tab open with your event bus logs

> Proctored Exam Flow

Reviewer: I think these another set of cases here for submitting an attempt that is auto verified and one needs a second review.

Reviewer: I still think we're missing these test cases ensuring a review by the proctoring provider is received and the attempt is updated. We kind of do that as a side effect of setup for testing the instructor dashboard but I think it's best to be explicit. If someone is just testing exam flow they should be validating this case.

Author: I added a test to the Proctorio section about checking that a review of the exam exists. Regardless of whether or not we're using Proctorio, wouldn't the test that we received a review by a proctoring provider be checking the exams dashboard itself?

Reviewer: I think the test I'm looking for is something that validates the ACS works as intended. So a test along the lines of "if a user submits an attempt without violation the proctoring software can update the attempt to verified" / "if a user submits with violations the proctoring software can update the attempt to review required".

I think that's a distinctly different test from testing that a verified/rejected/second review attempt can be reset in the UI since that testing instructor experience but the ACS is part of the learner / exam flow.

-------------------
Expected Behavior: "A paid track learner is able to start, complete, and submit a proctored exam using Proctoring Software that is launched via LTI."

Without Proctoring Software Installed
=====================================
#. Enter a Proctored Exam without proctoring software installed. You should see an interstitial stating that "This exam is proctored" with a button that says "Continue to Proctored Exam"
#. Clicking "Continue to Proctored Exam" should bring you to an interstitial titled "Set up and start your proctored exam." with "Start System Check" and "Start Exam" buttons
#. Clicking the "Start Exam" button should pop up a modal that says "Cannot Start Exam"
#. Clicking "OK" closes that modal

> #. Clicking "Start System Check" redirects you to a (likely broken) page

Author: No this is me getting mixed up with the exams dashboard for the proctoring software being a broken link at the moment. This shouldn't be broken ideally.

#. A modal pops up upon clickin "Manual Review" that only has the "Cancel" and "Verify" Buttons
#. Clicking "Cancel" closes the modal
#. Clicking "Verify" changes the attempt status to "verified" in the UI
#. Upon refreshing a filtering for this exam attempt, it is still marked as "verified"
#. Check the Gradebook (Instructor Dashboard -> Student Admin -> Gradebook) and check that the grade for the exam is 100.

Reviewing "Errored" attempts
============================
Instructions: Create a couple of errored attempts by opening Chrome DevTools during an exam
#. Clicking the "Review Required" button pops up a modal that says "Update review status"
#. Clicking "Cancel" closes modal
#. Clicking "Verify" marks attempt as verified both in the dashboard and in the edx-exams admin
#. Clicking "Reject" marks attempt as reject both in the dashboard and in the edx-exams admin

Resetting an exam attempt
=========================
#. Clicking "Reset" on an exam attempt brings up a confirmation modal
#. Clicking "No (Cancel)" closes the modal and nothing changes
#. Clicking "Yes I'm Sure" removes the exam attempt from the table (effectively confirming that it's been reset)

> #. The exam attempt no longer appears in the edx-exams admin

Reviewer: NIT: this one part of the test requires additional access. Going back the the section as a learner and ensuring you get the correct interstitial can test the reset happened without needing admin. (the tester already has to login as a learner to check completion in the next step.

#. Go through the opening interstitials and click "Start System Check". You should briefly see an lti launch URL containing "/lti_consumer/" in the URL bar, and then be redirected to the Proctorio Instructions page.
#. Immediately navigating back and trying to click "Start Exam" still doesn't allow you to start the exam.
#. Navigating back to the Proctorio Instructions and refreshing on that page causes no issues
#. Go through the Proctorio Setup for your Webcam, Desktop, etc. Upon setup completion, your webcam should appear to the right of the screen along with some controls. You should land on a page that says "Sending you back to your exam." with a link to "Return to Exam". Clicking this link should send you to another interstitial. (NOTE: Clicking this link is time-bound so make sure to click it fast)
#. Clicking "Return to Exam" directs you to a page titled "Important" w/ another header saying "Proctored Exam Rules", and a "Start Exam" Button
#. Clicking "Start Exam" directs you to the exam.
#. Clicking "End My Exam" directs you to a "Are you sure you want to end your proctored exam?" Interstitial
#. Clicking "No I'd like to continue working" sends you back to the exam.

> #. Clicking "Yes end my proctored exam" ends the exam and directs you to a "You have submitted this proctored exam for review" page

Reviewer: This is mostly just a NIT but bumping this comment because I think it's worth calling out specifically.

Exams Dashboard
---------------
Expected Behavior: ACS Endpoint calls work, able to review/reset exam attempts

Dashboard UI
============
#. Clicking on the "Special Exams" tab loads the *new* version of the exams dashboard.
#. Clicking on the "Review Dashboard" tab within the exams dashboard should open a new tab to the Proctorio Dashboard for instructors.
#. Clicking the "Select An Exam" dropdown shows the list of exams for the course.
#. Filtering by exam name in the exam selection dropdown brings up the expected exams (e.g. querying "M4-M6" shows all the exams in that section)
#. Selecting a specific exam (i.e. the ones you just took) loads the respective exam attempts for those exams
#. The exam attempts are in the expected status, e.g. successful attempts are submitted or verified, and the errored attempts are errored.
#. Filtering by username only shows exam attempts for that username.
#. The status changes for these exam attempts look the same in the edx-exams admin

> Resetting an exam attempt

Reviewer: these tests could be a good place to cover other effects of a reset too. Why not test the learner's completion and problem is reset as well here? (same comment goes for the below tests)

Proctored Exams
===============

Helpful ReadTheDocs Pages:

- `Configuring a Proctoring Provider <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-partner-course-staff/en/latest/proctored_exams/proctored_enabling.html#configuring-proctoring-provider>`_

> - `Creating a Proctored Exam <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-partner-course-staff/en/latest/proctored_exams/pt_create.html#creating-a-proctored-exam>`_

Reviewer 2: Neither of these links is used in this document.

Author: Ah these are copied over from [timed_exam.rst](https://github.com/edx/edx-exams/blob/main/docs/test_plan/timed_exam.rst), where it seems like they aren't used either. I see what you're saying though, I can have these links referenced in the setup instructions where it makes sense.

Reviewer: I think this might be how they are referenced the other docs has them right next to the step to create a proctored exam. Maybe we just want to point back to this if these instructions are needed anywhere later in the doc. If you use headings you can add internal links within the doc like this https://github.com/openedx/edx-proctoring/blob/master/docs/testing/test_plan.md?plain=1#L220. That can also be good to avoid repeating yourself  if one test depends on the setup of another

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see. So it's like reference materials? My bad - got confused!

Prerequisite steps:
    #. Use Google Chrome
    #. Have a staff account
    #. Have a non-staff learner account enrolled in the verified track for this course
    #. As your non-staff user in your current window, and enroll in the course where you have set up your proctored exam
    #. In an incognito window, login to your staff account and visit your Support Tools page and search in the email for your non-staff user. You should now see the option to change the enrollment track of that user. Change the enrollment track of the user to ""verified"" (choose any reason when prompted, it doesn't matter)
    #. In that same incognito, still signed in as staff, navigate to the Instructor dashboard

>     #. Find or create a test course within Stage with proctoring enabled and an LTI proctoring provider chosen, certificates are enabled, and where the exams IDA waffle flag is enabled

Reviewer 2: I think that the order of these prerequisite steps is a little confusing. For example, you're enrolling a non-staff learner account in "this course" before you have set up a course with proctoring. Based on your instructions, you may set up an entirely new course in which the learner is not enrolled.

I'd recommend breaking this up into "Proctoring Set Up Steps" and "User Set Up Steps" to make this clearer.

Reviewer 2: Do you have a particular environment in mind here (e.g. stage)? Stage will have proctoring set up in a way that someone just starting in their devstack will not, so I think we should either not make references to a particular environment and link out to documentation for each environment (e.g. stage/production and development), or specify that this is just for stage/production.

Reviewer 2: "certificates are enabled" is a little vague and could mean a variety of things. I think we should be more specific here. Do you mean "where there is a verified track" or something else?

Reviewer 2: I know we don't have official documentation for this yet, but it would be good to clarify what "an LTI proctoring provider chosen" means - how does one do this or verify this? Depending on which environment this documentation applies to, you could just refer to the Proctoring Settings Page and/or reference our [Local Development and LTI Configuration](https://2u-internal.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PT/pages/256737327/Local+Development+and+LTI+Configuration) document for the development environment.

Author: - Changed the order of the steps as you recommended (still need to push the change)
- I have local in mind, but based on [this thread](https://twou.slack.com/archives/C049EF6VCTB/p1699386718501819) it seems like it's also fair to mention that we do have a test course in stage (at least as of now) 
- I'm honestly not too sure how certificates work so if "verified track" makes more sense I can just put that.
- Assuming `edx-exams` ends up in Open edX, would it make sense to just move the instructions for [Local Development and LTI Configuration](https://2u-internal.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PT/pages/256737327/Local+Development+and+LTI+Configuration) to the README and just make that the source of truth?

Reviewer: for the local instructions you are correct and those do need to move as part of the release to openedx. We've got that noted as a requirement here: https://2u-internal.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PT/pages/626753683/Beta+Release+and+Beyond.

I do think these tests need to be done in a deployed environment and not Tutor/Devstack in order to say we're confident in releasing these features.

Reviewer: @MichaelRoytman I do think there's also going to be a gap until we get instructions in readthedocs. I don't think we should duplicate how to setup a proctored exam, a user, a proctoring provider, etc here and should just reference readthedocs where needed.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, totally agree with linking out. I didn't mean to suggest we should duplicate - just that I felt like some information was missing, which can definitely be added by referencing other documentation, like "Set up a proctored exam: <link>."

        #. The exams IDA waffle flag can be found/created in the LMS' Django Admin under "Waffle Flag Course Overrides"
        #. If needed, you can make a new entry using "course_apps.exams_ida" as the waffle flag, the course ID, and by setting it to "Enabled"
    #. Find or create two exam subsections with a type of 'Proctored exam' in your test course
        #. This can be done by creating a subsection and clicking the 'Configure' button (should look like a gear), going to the "Advanced Tab", and selecting "Proctored"
        #. You MUST also set this subsection to be Graded as a Midterm or Final exam
        #. This subsection should contain at least one unit with one gradeable block, e.g. a generic multiple choice question in order to test downstream effects to the gradebook

>     #. You should also have a tab open with your event bus logs

Reviewer 2: I would have no idea what this means if I wasn't already familiar with the event bus. How does one do this? For what it's worth, you don't make a reference to the logs again, so is this step really necessary?

Author: Ah yeah that's just something I forgot to delete. I agree with you on this so I'll remove it.

#. Clicking "OK" should close that modal
#. Clicking "Start System Check" should redirect you to your proctoring setup page
#. Navigating back one page and clicking "Start Exam" should still block you from starting the exam

Can't Start Exam Without Proctoring Software Running
----------------------------------------------------
#. Install the proctoring software that you've configured with your platform. Go through the opening interstitials and click "Start System Check". This should load your respective Proctoring Software Setup page
#. Immediately navigating back and trying to click "Start Exam" should't allow you to start the exam
#. Navigating back to your proctoring software setup page and refreshing on that page should cause no issues
#. Go through your proctoring software setup for your Webcam, Desktop, etc. Upon setup completion, you should be redirected back to an exam interstitial with just the "Start Exam" button
#. Close your proctoring software and click "Start Exam". The exam should not start

Exam Flow Works With Proctoring Software Installed & Running
------------------------------------------------------------

> #. Go through the setup again, this time without closing your proctoring software. Clicking "Start Exam" should start the exam

Reviewer 2: What setup? The steps in "Can't Start Exam Without Proctoring Software Running"?

Author: Yes :)

#. On the "Return to exam" page, DO NOT click on the "Sending you back to your exam" page. Wait instead, and you should be sent to the "Important"/"Start Exam" interstitial automatically
#. In a separate exam, go through the setup again and on the "Sending you back to your exam." page, click "Return to Exam". Clicking this link should send you to another interstitial. (NOTE: Clicking this link is time-bound so make sure to click it fast)
#. Clicking the "Return to Exam" button should direct you to a page titled "Important" w/ another header saying "Proctored Exam Rules", and a "Start Exam" Button

Exams Dashboard
===============
Expected Behavior: Calls to the ACS Endpoint work, instructors can review/reset exam attempts, and expected downstream effects (e.g. w/ completion, credits, certificates, etc) of modifying an exam attempt's status occur
NOTE: These instructions currently do not account for downstream effects involving a learner's credit requirement status. We currently have no plan to include these

Dashboard UI Loads Exam Attempts
--------------------------------

> #. Clicking on the "Special Exams" tab should load the *new* version of the exams dashboard

Reviewer 2: Where is this tab? How do I get to this tab? How do I know if I'm at the old or new exams dashboard?

Author: Added instructions on how to get to this tab + how to tell if it's the newer one.

#. Clicking on the "Review Dashboard" tab within the exams dashboard should open a dashboard owned by your selected procotoring software (e.g. a Proctortrack or Proctorio dashboard for reviewing exam attempt details)
#. Clicking the "Select An Exam" dropdown should show the list of exams for the course
#. Filtering by exam name in the exam selection dropdown should bring up the expected exams (e.g. querying "M4-M6" shows all the exams in that section)
#. Selecting a specific exam (i.e. the ones you just took) should load the respective exam attempts for those exams
#. The exam attempts should be in the expected status, e.g. successful attempts are submitted or verified, and the errored attempts are errored
#. Filtering by username only should show exam attempts for that username
#. Clicking the "Review Dashboard" link in the modal should load the review dashboard for your chosen Proctoring Software (e.g. Proctortrack or Proctorio)

Can Reject/Verify "Review Required" attempts
---------------------------------------------------

> INSTRUCTIONS: Go into another exam and be suspiscious. Block your webcam, leave for a few seconds, make strange noises, open a bunch of tabs, watch some youtube, open wikipedia, ask chatgpt for the answer to life, etc. Note you will need to do this a couple of times

Reviewer 2: Out of curiosity, how does this work? Does Proctorio return a response this quickly? I know Proctortrack would take some time to return back a review.

Author: Usually takes no more than a minute from what I've seen on Stage.

Reviewer 2: Oh, nice!

> #. Submit your suspiscious exam attempt, and check the exams dashboard. Assuming you were suspiscious enough, you should see a row that has a status of "Review Required" AND has a "Review Required" button for your attempt

Reviewer 2: Would it be faster and less vendor specific to go into the admin dashboard and set the attempt's status to `second_review_required`? This also takes a way the need to be "suspicious enough" and avoids relying on the vendor's review process, which we don't need to be testing here. This applies to all the test cases that rely on a review coming in.

Author: Added instructions to have this as an option to just retaking the exam

    #. NOTE: This exam attempt may appear with the status "Satisfied" if you are using Proctorio. This means Proctorio's system is still analyzing your attempt. If this happens, just wait a bit and refresh the page until the status changes to "Verified"
#. Clicking the "Review Required" button should spawn a modal that says "Update review status"
#. Clicking "Cancel" should close the modal

> #. Clicking "Verify" should mark attempt as verified both in the dashboard

Reviewer 2: Both in the dashboard and where else?

Author: Ah that's a typo

#. Check the Gradebook (Instructor Dashboard -> Student Admin -> Gradebook) and check that the grade for the exam is 100
#. Clicking "Reject" should mark attempt as reject both in the dashboard
#. Check the Gradebook (Instructor Dashboard -> Student Admin -> Gradebook) and check that the grade for the exam is 0

Can Review Verified Attempts
----------------------------
INSTRUCTIONS: Go into another exam and don't be suspiscious. Keep your webcam on with your face in frame. Complete the exam

#. An exam attempt with a status of "Verified" should appear and have a button/link at the end of their rows titled "Manual Review"
    #. NOTE: This exam attempt may appear with the status "Satisfied" if you are using Proctorio. This means Proctorio's system is still analyzing your attempt. If this happens, just wait a bit and refresh the page until the status changes to "Verified"
#. A modal should pop up upon clicking "Manual Review" that contains "Cancel" and "Reject" Buttons
#. Clicking "Cancel" should close the modal
#. Clicking "Reject" should change the attempt status to "rejected" in the UI

> #. Upon refreshing a filtering for this exam attempt, it is still marked as "rejected"

Reviewer 2: What is this testing? Why don't we do this same step for "Can Reject/Verify "Review Required" attempts"?

Author: I'm realizing this test is redundant because the status change in the UI only occurs if the status change in the backend was successful (this is done via "dispatch" in the exam dashboard's thunks), so I'm just going to remove it.

#. Check the Gradebook (Instructor Dashboard -> Student Admin -> Gradebook) and check that the grade for the exam is 0
#. Check the Generated Certificates table in the LMS admin at "{your platform url}/admin/certificates/generatedcertificate/" to see if the user's certificate for the course has been marked as "invalidated"

Can Review Rejected Attempts
----------------------------
#. The exam attempt that you just marked as "Rejected" should have a button at the end of their rows saying "Manual Review"

> #. A modal pops up upon clickin "Manual Review" that only should  ha the "Cancel" and "Verify" Buttons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. A modal pops up upon clicking "Manual Review" that only should have the "Cancel" and "Verify" Buttons
```

    #. In that same incognito, still signed in as staff, navigate to the Instructor dashboard
    #. Find or create a test course within Stage with proctoring enabled and an LTI proctoring provider chosen, certificates are enabled, and where the exams IDA waffle flag is enabled
        #. The exams IDA waffle flag can be found/created in the LMS' Django Admin under "Waffle Flag Course Overrides"
        #. If needed, you can make a new entry using "course_apps.exams_ida" as the waffle flag, the course ID, and by setting it to "Enabled"
    #. Find or create two exam subsections with a type of 'Proctored exam' in your test course
        #. This can be done by creating a subsection and clicking the 'Configure' button (should look like a gear), going to the "Advanced Tab", and selecting "Proctored"
        #. You MUST also set this subsection to be Graded as a Midterm or Final exam
        #. This subsection should contain at least one unit with one gradeable block, e.g. a generic multiple choice question in order to test downstream effects to the gradebook
    #. You should also have a tab open with your event bus logs

Proctored Exam Flow

> -------------------

Reviewer 3: NIT: using a single dash makes the text appear smaller than the following test cases. If this is meant to be the overarching category, I feel like this text should be bigger.

Author: OOPS

#. Navigating back to your proctoring software setup page and refreshing on that page should cause no issues
#. Go through your proctoring software setup for your Webcam, Desktop, etc. Upon setup completion, you should be redirected back to an exam interstitial with just the "Start Exam" button
#. Close your proctoring software and click "Start Exam". The exam should not start

Exam Flow Works With Proctoring Software Installed & Running
============================================================
#. Go through the setup again, this time without closing your proctoring software. Clicking "Start Exam" should start the exam
#. Complete whatever question you put inside your exam w/ the correct answer. Clicking "End My Exam" should direct you to a "Are you sure you want to end your proctored exam?" interstitial
#. Clicking "No I'd like to continue working" should send you back to the exam
#. Clicking "Yes end my proctored exam" should end the exam and directs you to a "You have submitted this proctored exam for review" page
#. In the course view, the exam you took should be marked as completed (with a green checkmark)

> 

Reviewer 3: Are there any tests for what to expect when an error occurs? For the proctoring flow, these all look like "happy path" tests.

Author: Yes those should be here: https://github.com/edx/edx-exams/pull/205/files/d1455d82318fcaebb675be2eff36909ceee74c6e#diff-b5c1a36768f79123cc3158c9c56b1b72e50008252b380bec3d570b0a2ca0cc37R119. I'm realizing I need to revise these to say "As a student, error the exam, and as an admin, reset the exam attempt, then try the exam again as a student" so that we reflect what would happen IRL.

Reviewer: I see we're testing the exams dashboard for error attempts but to Alie's point shouldn't we have a test of an error from the "testing the exam flow" perspective? Something to test that the learner gets an error interstitial / the learner cannot access the exam content after an error.
